<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_oc1_ltx_jqb">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <taskbody>
        <context><p/><b>1.1 Purpose</b><p> The purpose of this document is to present a detailed
                description of the Web Publishing System. It will explain the purpose and features
                of the system, the interfaces of the system, what the system will do, the
                constraints under which it must operate and how the system will react to external
                stimuli. This document is intended for both the stakeholders and the developers of
                the system and will be proposed to the Regional Historical Society for its
                approval.</p><p><b>1.2 Scope of Project</b></p>This software system will be a Web
            Publishing System for a local editor of a regional historical society. This system will
            be designed to maximize the editor’s productivity by providing tools to assist in
            automating the article review and publishing process, which would otherwise have to be
            performed manually. By maximizing the editor’s work efficiency and production the system
            will meet the editor’s needs while remaining easy to understand and use.<p>More
                specifically, this system is designed to allow an editor to manage and communicate
                with a group of reviewers and authors to publish articles to a public website. The
                software will facilitate communication between authors, reviewers, and the editor
                via E-Mail. Preformatted reply to forms are used in every stage of the articles’
                progress through the system to provide a uniform review process; the location of
                these forms is configurable via the application’s maintenance options. The system
                also contains a relational database containing a list of Authors, Reviewers, and
                Articles.</p><p><b>1.3 Glossary</b></p><p>
                <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_d1n_jvx_jqb">
                    <tgroup cols="2">
                        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry><b>Term</b></entry>
                                <entry><b>Definition</b></entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Active Article</entry>
                                <entry>The document that is tracked by the system; it is a narrative
                                    that is planned to be posted to the public website.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Author</entry>
                                <entry>Person submitting an article to be reviewed. In case of
                                    multiple authors, this term refers to the <i>principal
                                        author</i>, with whom all communication is made.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Database</entry>
                                <entry>Collection of all the information monitored by this
                                    system.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Editor</entry>
                                <entry>Person who receives articles, sends articles for review, and
                                    makes final judgments for publications.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Field</entry>
                                <entry>A cell within a form.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Historical Society Database</entry>
                                <entry>The existing membership database (also HS database).</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Member</entry>
                                <entry>A member of the Historical Society listed in the HS
                                    database.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Reader</entry>
                                <entry>Anyone visiting the site to read articles.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Review</entry>
                                <entry>A written recommendation about the appropriateness of an
                                    article for publication; may include suggestions for
                                    improvement.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Reviewer</entry>
                                <entry>A person that examines an article and has the ability to
                                    recommend approval of the article for publication or to request
                                    that changes be made in the article.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Software Requirements Specification</entry>
                                <entry>A document that completely describes all of the functions of
                                    a proposed system and the constraints under which it must
                                    operate. For example, this document.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Stakeholder</entry>
                                <entry>Any person with an interest in the project who is not a
                                    developer.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>User</entry>
                                <entry>Reviewer or Author.</entry>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table>
            </p><p><b>1.4 Reference </b></p><p>IEEE. <i>IEEE Std 830-1998 IEEE Recommended Practice
                    for Software Requirements </i></p><p><b>1.5 Overview of Document</b></p>The next
            chapter, the Overall Description section, of this document gives an overview of the
            functionality of the product. It describes the informal requirements and is used to
            establish a context for the technical requirements specification in the next
                chapter.<p>The third chapter, Requirements Specification section, of this document
                is written primarily for the developers and describes in technical terms the details
                of the functionality of the product. </p><p>Both sections of the document describe
                the same software product in its entirety but are intended for different audiences
                and thus use different language.</p></context>
    </taskbody>
</task>
