<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="promiscuous_mode">
    <title>Promiscuous mode</title>
    <shortdesc>Describing promiscuous mode </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p dir="ltr">In a network, the <i>promiscuous mode</i> allows a network device to
                intercept and read each network packet that arrives in its entirety. </p>
            <p dir="ltr">In an <xref
                    href="http://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/Ethernet" format="html"
                    scope="external">Ethernet</xref> local area network ( <xref
                    href="http://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/local-area-network-LAN"
                    format="html" scope="external">LAN</xref>), promiscuous mode is a mode of
                operation in which every data packet transmitted can be received and read by a
                network adapter.</p>
            <p>The promiscuous mode must be supported by each network adapter and the input/output
                driver in the host operating system. Promiscuous mode is often used to monitor
                network activity. When a network interface is placed into promiscuous mode, all
                packets are sent to the kernel for processing, including packets not destined for
                the MAC address of the <xref
                    href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/network-interface-card"
                    format="html" scope="external"><u>network interface card</u></xref>. The one
                main reason that this is a bad thing is that users on the system with a promiscuous
                mode network interface can now use a tool like a sniffer to view any <xref
                    href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/network-packet"
                    format="html" scope="external"><u>network packets</u></xref>.</p>
            <p><b>Contribution:</b></p>
            <p>There were multiple print messages on the console stating the system is entering
                promiscuous mode. To avoid the message on the console I can redirect to null in the
                command line or script. However, the message is being displayed during library call
                to pcap_open_live() in the libpcap library. I found the printk statement in the
                kernel file /net/core/dev.c., function dev_set_promiscuity(). So, I just commented
                it out and rebuilt the kernel for my system.</p>
        </context>
    </taskbody>
</task>
